Block storage provides lowest possible latency


File(NAS), Block(SAN) and Object storage network


ephemeral storage (Non-Persistent Storage)

Ephermeral storage is directly attached to the devices... i.e like storage is attached to the server and VM's running on the Server will share the storage.


Ephermeral storage directly sits on the machine, but Block storage are attached to the machine..... and we mount this block storage to the devices.


DAS(Direct Attached Storage)
	1. It is directly attached to the storage... and it can't be used for sharing


NAS(network Attached Storage) (Also called file based Storage)
	1. Cheap (more costly than DAS)
	2. It is Sharable across the devices like 10 employees needs common storage for accessing files
	3. centralized control of files
	4. Data replication

	Cons:
		1. Network Attachment...  Latency happens


FIle Based and Block Based Storage:


In Block Based storage, data stores in block... like suppose there is a file and we stored it in 100 blocks, later if we edit the file.. then system will change those 4 blocks that need's to be changed

Block based storage happens via LAN...

Object Storage:

	1. Here we have objects..

		Each object have following components
			a. ID
			b. MetaData (Authors of file, permissions, date of creation.. last modified...)
			c. Blob (Data.. i.e video.. file...)
			d. Can't update a specific, It will delete whole file and upload a new file
			e. Used for like write-once and read-many times
			f. Data request of transfer happens via HTTP Request
			g. Used for Static storage...(photos, video,websites,files...) CDN



In AWS, FileStorage is Provided by EFS
		Block Storage is Provided by EBS
		Object storage is Provided by S3


EBS is a network drive, not a physical drive

It uses network to communicate with the instances, so there will be some latency.


Storage is limited to AZ's

if we want to use storage in another region, create a snapshot.

Volume Types:

	1. GP2 (SSD)
		1GiB - 16 TiB
	2. IOI (SSD) (4GiB to 16GiB)
	3. STI (HDD)
	4. SCI (HDD)

EBS volume 6 types:

	1. gp2 / gp3 (SSD)
		General purpose SSD volume that balances price and performance
	2. io1 / io2 (SDD) (Provisioned IOPS)
		Highest Performace SSD, low latency used for mission critical applications.
		Choose this when we need sustained IOPS, when applications need more than 16,000 IOPS
		4GiB to 16TiB
		max IOPS we can get is 64,000IOPS for nitro EC2 instances and 32,000 for other
		Can increase IOPS independently from the storage
		io2 are more durable and have more IOPS per GiB
		io2: MAX IOPS: 256,000 and IOPS:GiB ratio 1,000:1

	3. st1 (HDD)
		low cost but frequently accessed data
	4. sc1 (HDD)
		low cost, less frequently accessed data

SSD -> 1GB to 16TB

HDD -> 125MiB to 16TB, IOPS and throughput are less

NotSure (But correct):
	Storage size and BlockSize are related. (kind of 1-1)

gp3:

	Baseline of 3000IOPS and throughput of 125MIB/s
	Can increase Upto 16,000 IOPS and throughput of upto 1000MIBS Independently (IOPS and througput are not linked)

gp2:

	Small volumes can burst upto 3000IOPS
	Size of volume and IOPS are linked, max IOPS 16,000
	if we increase the volume, IOPS also increase, i.e 3 IOPS per 1GB


EBS volumes are characterized into:

	1. Size
	2. IOPS
	3. Throughput


only gp2/gp3 and io1/io2 are used as boot volumes

In gp2, throughput and IOPS are linked, i.e we can't increase IOPS only alone

In gp3, throughput and IOPS are not linked, i.e we can change IOPS alone

EBS Volumes are characterized in Size, IOPS, ThroughPut

For Boot Volumes, use GP2 and IO1


We use only SSD as boot volumes, not HDD

On stopping/terminating the instaces, instance store will be lost.


Limitations of EBS is, at a time only one instance can mount.


EFS (Elastic File system)

	Managed NFS can be mounted on many EC2 instances

	It is a region limited.


EBS Snapshot:

	Make a EBS Volume snapshot, we can copy snapshots across regions

	AWS Snapshots scope is Region level


EBS Multi Attach:

	io1 and io2 family supports

	All Applications have full permissions

	More than one instance can attach the EBS Volume

NFS:

	Managed network file system


Huge difference between EBS and EFS is EBS is scoped to AZ's and EFS is scoped to Region


EFS can be mountable accross multiple instances


Windows Systems cannot mount EFS

EFS scales automatically, pay-per-use

EFS is server less

EFS life cycle:

	Standard: Frequently accessed files
	InfrequentAccessFiles: 

For less storage but need more IOPS, then we can use EFS



IOPS and Throughput:

	IOPS:  Number of read and write operations per second

		example: 1000IOPS -> 1sec we can read/write 1000 blocks of data

	Throughput: Number of bits read or written per second

		example: write/read 5MB per second

	File size has no affect on IOPS...



GP2:

	usually IOPS = 3 * size33333


Latency and throughput work hand-in-hand


SSD:

	1GB - 16TG

	gp3:
		Baseline of: 3000IOPS
		25MiB/s

		And we can increase the IOPS upto 16000IOPS and throughput upto 1000MiB/s independently

	gp2:

		burst upto 3000IOPS

		Size of volume and IOPS are linked



EBS, when ever we mount, we have to format it to required filesystem

NFS has it's own file system

EBS is provisioned, EFS and S3 are scaled automatically


EBS Supports encryption, i.e while creating volume, we can choose option to encrypt the volume

If we want to encrypt the existing volume(in use volume), then we have to create a snapshot and encrypt the shapshot and create a volume from it.



