Helps developers to analyze and debug applications utilizing micro service architecture.

X-Ray is a distributed Tracing system or Performance Montoring System.


In Microservices architecture, we have many services, how to manage and debug those many services.. that is why we have X-ray


X-Ray:
1. Distributed Tracing (More related to performance i.e what cause the poor performance)
2. Performance Monitoring ()


X-Ray is a Distributed Tracing System, Collects data about requests that your application serves.

We can view,filter the collected data to identify the issues.

Not only abt the requests that application receive... but also the calls that application makes to the down stream AWS Resources.


X-Ray Architecture...

	X-Ray Console <- X-Ray API <- X-RAY Daemon <- X-Ray SDK 
						|			|
						|___< Other Clients (AWS ClI, AWS SDK)


	Daemon will buffer the info and we get that using Api (SDk wll send to Daemon using UDP Traffic)



	X-Ray Provides:

		1. Interceptors => add to your to trace incoming http requests
		2. Client Handlers => to instrument AWS SDK Clients that your application uses to call other AWS services.
		3. An HTTP Client => to use to instrument calls to other internal and external HTTP Web services.

Instrument:

	The ability to monitor or measure the level of application performance, to diagnose the errors, and to write trace information.



AWS X-Ray receives data from services as segments.

X-Ray then groups segments that have a common request into traces.

and X-ray will process the traces to generate the service graph that provides the visual representation of your app.



Components in X-Ray are:

1. Segments
2. Sub-Segments
3. Service Graph
4. Traces
5. Sampling
6. Tracing Header
7. Filter Expressions
8. Groups
9. Annotations and MetaData
10. Errors, Faults and Exceptions


Service Graph:

	Shows the client, front-end and back-end services.

	Use for identifying the Bottle-neck, latency spikes.. and other issues.



Segments:

	1. hostname, ip address 
	2. Request method 
	3. Response
	4. issues that occurs

SubSegments:

	1. More granular information i.e more downstream call's app make to fullfill the request.
	2. Contain additonal information like calls to AWS services.. 


Visual analysis of our application

Advantages:
	1. Find Bottle necks
	2. Understand dependencies in micro service architecture
	3. Find errors and requests


How to enable X-Ray:

	1. Code must import X-Ray SDK
		This will capture the requests
	2. Install the X-Ray Daemon which will intercept the packets

How it works:

	  ( Application Code + X-Ray SDk ) ---> X-Ray daemon  <-------> X-Ray
	< ----------- On our machine ------------------------>

Why we need to Use:

1. Debugging
	X-Ray helps you locate the sources of bugs by aggregating errors, faults, and exceptions. Powerful search capabilities help you pinpoint issues.
2. Tracing
	X-Ray collects timing and response data needed to identify high-latency services, bottlenecks, and throttling in a microservices architecture.
3. Service Map
	X-Ray creates a map of services used by your application to provide you with a view of connections among clients, front-end service, and downstream services.


How to enable X-Ray in beanstalk:

	1. through eb extensions i.e .ebextensions/x-ray-daemon.config

Based on calls we create service MAP

Show the exceptions/errors

Also check and analyze the requests, latency of requests


X-Ray Instrumentation:



In ECS:

	In ECS we can run X-Ray daemon in 2 ways:
		1. Daemon
			Daemon means running on all EC2 instances as standardalone docker container
		2. SideCar
			It will be running along with the application container i.e Every container will have a X-Ray daemon

		daemon will be running on Port 2000 UDP

	We will be running X-Ray Daemon as docker container on all Instances.

X-ray lets you to analyze and visualize the cross account services.

Also X-Ray helps us in seeing application erros, number of requets coming, of which how many are failure and success 

With tracing,
	We can check each request, it is success or failure, if it is failure, what is the error


References:

1. https://aws.amazon.com/xray/faq
2. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-console-sampling.html
